Our JAR file can be run using the command "java -jar assignment4.jar". The "stock_data" folder and the "stock_master_file" csv must be present in the same directory as the jar file.

On running the JAR file the user will be shown a menu (main menu) which will have 2 different options listed below.
1.) Operate on an inflexible portfolio
2.) Operate on a flexible portfolio

On clicking 2, the user will be prompted to the below menu:
Please Enter select option
1.)  Buy a stock
2.)  Sell a stock
3.)  View a Portfolio
4.)  Save a Portfolio
5.)  Load a Portfolio
6.)  Determine the cost basis
7.)  Determine the value
8.)  Plot portfolio performance
9.)  Show all portfolios
0.)  Go to previous menu

The user can click 1 and press the "Enter" key to "Buy a stock". It will ask for the name of a Portfolio, the ticker to be bought, the date on which the transaction to be seen, the number of shares. The user can click 2 and press the "Enter" key to "Sell a stock".


On clicking 1, the user is prompted to the below menu
1.) Add a new Portfolio
2.) View a Portfolio
3.) Show the total value of a Portfolio
4.) Save a Portfolio
5.) Load a Portfolio
6.) Exit the program

The user can enter 1 and press the "Enter" key to "Add a new Portfolio". The user will then be asked to enter a portfolio name. The portfolio name should not contain spaces (it can be something like "portfolio_one"), after typing the portfolio name the user can press enter. The user will then be asked to enter the stock ticker symbol and the number of shares for that stock. The stock ticker symbol will be validated against the list of supported stocks (please see the list below) and the number of shares has to be a positive integer value. The user will then be asked, "Do you want to continue adding Stocks?". The user can respond with "n" if they do not wish to add another stock to the portfolio or "y" if they need to add another stock to the current portfolio. On entering "y", the user will be asked to enter another stock ticker symbol and the number of shares. The user can enter any number of stocks by entering "y" repeatedly. On entering "n" the user will be shown the main menu with the 6 options. The user can add another portfolio by entering 1 and following the process described above.

The created portfolios can be viewed by selecting option 2 on the main menu and entering the portfolio name.

To query the value of a portfolio the user can enter 3 for "Show the total value of a Portfolio". The user will be asked for the portfolio name and the date on which the value is to be computed. The date should be entered in the yyyy-mm-dd format. The program will compute the value of the portfolio on the given date and show the result to the user in the format "Ticker [unit_Stock_Price, no_Of_Shares, stock_Value]" followed by the total value of the portfolio on the given date. Our program can be used to query the portfolio value from 2014-01-01 to 2022-10-31.

The user can save a portfolio by selecting option 4 on the main menu and entering the portfolio name. The portfolio will be saved in XML format in the same directory as the JAR file and the file name will be set to the portfolio name.

The user can load a saved portfolio by selecting 5 on the main menu and entering the portfolio name. The portfolio should be saved in valid XML format in the same directory as the JAR file and the file name should the same as the portfolio name.

The user can exit the program by selecting 6 on the main menu. All created portfolios will be saved in XML format to the same directory as the JAR and the file name will be set to the portfolio name.

Our program supports 25 different stocks. Please see the stock list below.
AAPL
MSFT
AMZN
TSLA
GOOGL
GOOG
NVDA
V
CVX
PG
HD
PFE
BAC
MRK
COST
META
TMO
WMT
MCD
DIS
DHR
BMY
ADBE
HON
QCOM
